# Week 3: Project Requirements

## Stage 1 - Desired Results

### Established Goals

After a project has been defined at a high level the next step is to refine the
project into goals and features. This week will describe how to define and
manage these goals and features in an organized way.

### Transfer

_Students will be able to independently use their learning to…_

Develop a coherent set of requirements for a project at a level that is in the
Goldilocks zone of abstraction.

### Meaning

#### Understandings

_Students will understand that…_

-   Project documentation makes life easier.
-   Stakeholder agreement is essential.

#### Essential Questions

-   How do you write down what "needs" to be done in a project?
-   How do you make sure all stakeholders agree?

### Acquisition

#### Students will know…

How to develop, phrase, and record a set of project requirements. Additionally,
how to communicate and agree on requirements with stakeholders.

#### Students will be skilled at…

Designing and documenting a set of project requirements.

## Stage 2 - Evidence and Assessment

### Evaluative Criteria

-   Students are expected to develop project requirements for their week 1 idea.

### Assessment Evidence

#### Performance Task(s):

-   Students will be asked to record a draft of their project requirements.

#### Other Evidence:

Students will be asked to reflect on their draft as part of their end of
semester portfolio.

## Stage 3 - Learning Plan: _Summary of Key Learning Events and Instruction_

It is shockingly common for projects to get to completion, presented to a
stakeholder only for the stakeholder to say the following.

> This isn't what I thought you were building

In school, we handle this by institutional knowledge and by constructing
rubrics. When you're in a situation where you're creating a novel product a
"rubric" takes the form of a set of requirements. Requirements give a specific
set of items that the product MUST satisfy. Coming to an agreement on
requirements before work begins ensures that stakeholders understand what
they're getting and don't have reactions like the following.

> This isn't what I thought you were building

1. Group discussion: (5min)
    1. Students to think about:
        1. When you're in a class working on a project how do you know what
           you're supposed to do?
        2. When you're working in the lab how to do you know what you're
           supposed to do?
    2. Share thoughts
2. Introduce the idea of a requirement (15min)
    1. Goals, Features, and Assumptions
    2. Assertive Language
    3. Non-ambiguous
        1. [PB&J Instructions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FN2RM-CHkuI)
3. Making an apple pie for your mom
4. Pair brainstorm: (10min)
    1. Student pairs to think about:
        1. Write 3-5 requirement descriptions for making an apple pie.
    2. Share requirements
    3. Discuss size of requirements and ambiguity
5. Group discussion: (10min)
    1. Students to think about:
        1. How would you keep track of requirements?
    2. Share thoughts
6. Introduce requirements management (10min)
    1. Requirement Cards
    2. Requirement Traceability
    3. Agreement with stakeholders
