# Week 4 Risk Management

## Stage 1 - Desired Results

### Established Goals

> Kein Operationsplan reicht mit einiger Sicherheit über das erste
> Zusammentreffen mit der feindlichen Hauptmacht hinaus. ( No plan of operations
> extends with any certainty beyond the first encounter with the main enemy
> forces.) - Helmuth von Moltke

Shockingly, things don't always go as planned. One of the worst thing someone
can do as a project manager is subscribing to the "Indiana Jones School of
Risk Management" [@thomsettIndianaJonesSchool1992]. A much better strategy is
considering and understanding what might go wrong BEFORE it does.

### Transfer

_Students will be able to independently use their learning to…_

Develop a coherent set of risk as well as a risk management strategy for a
project at a level that is in the Goldilocks zone of abstraction.

### Meaning

#### Understandings

_Students will understand that…_

-   Why risk management from the "Indiana Jones School of Risk Management" [@thomsettIndianaJonesSchool1992] is bad.

#### Essential Questions

-   How do you evaluate risk?

### Acquisition

#### Students will know…

How to develop, phrase, and record a set of project risks and their mitigation
and management strategies. Additionally, how to communicate and store risks
effectively.

#### Students will be skilled at…

Designing and documenting a set of project risks.

## Stage 2 - Evidence and Assessment

### Evaluative Criteria

-   Students are expected to develop project risks for their week 1 idea.

### Assessment Evidence

#### Performance Task(s):

-   Students will be asked to record a draft of their project risk management plan.

#### Other Evidence:

Students will be asked to reflect on their draft as part of their end of
semester portfolio.

## Stage 3 - Learning Plan: _Summary of Key Learning Events and Instruction_

Things go wrong all the time when working on a project. People can leave the
team. Weather can cause a shutdown. A disease can cause everyone to be home
bound. If you don't plan for things you end up forever in a reactionary (and
stressful) mode. It is much less stressful to consider things that can go
wrong before they go wrong. If you preload these considerations you can mitigate
the chances that those things will happen and conceive a plan to manage the
event should it occur anyway.


1. Group discussion: (10 min)
    1. Students to think about:
        1. Have you ever run into a situation where a project fell apart?
        2. Have you ever run into an event that caused a project to fail?
        3. Could you have noticed the event before it happened?
    2. Share thoughts
2. Risk (10 min)
    1. What is a risk?
    2. How do you ideate risks?
3. Making an apple pie for your mom
4. Pair brainstorm: (10 min)
    1. Student pairs to think about:
        1. Write 3-5 risks for making an apple pie.
    2. Share risks
5. Risk Evaluation (5 min)
    1. Likelihood
    2. Impact
    3. Severity
6. Evaluate apple pie risk (5 min)
    1. Student pairs to think about:
        1. Assign to each risk a
            1. Likelihood
            2. Impact
            3. Severity
    2. Share results
5. Risk Management and Mitigation (5 min)
    1. Priority
    2. Management
    3. Mitigation
6. Evaluate apple pie risk (5 min)
    1. Student pairs to think about:
        1. Assign to each risk a
            1. Management Strategy
            2. Mitigation Strategy
    2. Share results
