# Week 5 Project Schedule

## Stage 1 - Desired Results

### Established Goals

The last step in a project plan before work "actually starts" on a project is
scheduling work for the project. This week will discuss task development and
scheduling. Additionally, how to use the schedule to evaluate project health.

### Transfer

_Students will be able to independently use their learning to…_

Develop a coherent set of tasks as well as a task planning strategy for a
project at a level that is in the Goldilocks zone of abstraction.

### Meaning

#### Understandings

_Students will understand that…_

-   Projects fall behind "One day at a time" - Fred Brooks

#### Essential Questions

*   How do you create tasks for a project?
*   How do you create a project schedule?
*   How do you use the schedule to evaluate project health?

### Acquisition

#### Students will know…

- How to develop, phrase, and record a set of project tasks.
- How to schedule those tasks.
- How do you use a Gantt chart to evaluate project health.

#### Students will be skilled at…

Designing and documenting a set of project tasks and a project schedule.

## Stage 2 - Evidence and Assessment

### Evaluative Criteria

-   Students are expected to develop project tasks and a schedule for their week 1 idea.

### Assessment Evidence

#### Performance Task(s):

-   Students will be asked to record a draft of their project schedule.

#### Other Evidence:

Students will be asked to reflect on their draft as part of their end of
semester portfolio.

## Stage 3 - Learning Plan: _Summary of Key Learning Events and Instruction_

At this point in the planning we have an excellent overview of the project. Our
final step in planning is describing explicit work items (tasks), putting the
tasks in a logical order, and assigning tasks to people.


1. Group discussion: (10 min)
    1. Students to think about:
        1. When you're working on a project how do you know what to work on?
        2. How do you know when to work on items?
    2. Share thoughts
2. Tasks (10 min)
    1. What is a task?
    2. How do you ideate tasks?
3. Making an apple pie for your mom
4. Pair brainstorm: (10 min)
    1. Student pairs to think about:
        1. Write 5-7 tasks for making an apple pie
    2. Share tasks
5. Task Scheduling (5 min)
    1. Task network
    2. Critical path
6. Evaluate apple pie risk (5 min)
    1. Student pairs to think about:
        1. Draw a task network for your apple pie tasks.
        2. Identify the critical path.
    2. Share results
5. Project Health (10 min)
    1. Kanban
    2. What is a Gantt chart
    3. What is a burn down chart