


## High Level Description

_This section of the project plan describes the project at the highest level.
This section is completed after ideation_


### Objectives

_This subsection should describe what the project is trying to accomplish. What
are you trying to build?_

### Purpose

_This subsection should describe the need being met by this project. Why is it
important that this be built?_

### Scope

_This subsection should describe what will be completed in this project and also
what will not be completed. For example if the project is painting a kitchen
painting the walls are likely "in scope" but painting the cabinets or moving
appliances may be "out of scope"._

### Deliverables

_This subsection should describe what the "completed" product this project is
building looks like. If you have a customer what do you hand to them at the
end? This could, and likely does, include "beta"/draft versions of the
deliverables at project milestones._

## Project Constraints

_This section describes limitations imposed on the project. These constraints
will inform the ```risk_management_plan``` as well as the ```schedule```._

(personnel)=
### Personnel

_This subsection describes the human resources for the project. It should
contain a list of all people who will work on the project and what their roles
are._

```{include} personnel/person.md
```

(timing)=
### Timing
_This subsection describes the timing constraints for the project. What is the
due date? Are there 'beta' releases described in deliverables. The combination
of this section and [SubSec. %s](#personnel) give the basis for determining the
schedule._

### Technological
_This subsection describes the technological constraints for the project.
Perhaps we're building a wood puzzle and don't have access to a laser cutter._

### Budget
_This subsection describes the monetary constraints for the project. How much do
we have to spend? Do the funds come in phases or as a lump sum?_


## Infrastructure, tools, and methods

_This section of the project plan describes what "things" are needed to complete
the project. Do you need a specific tool to plan the project (infrastructure)?
Do you need a tool or procedure while constructing the project? As an example,
if the project is to build a wooden chest, you may need a table saw to complete
the project._
