


## High Level Description

_This section of the project plan describes the project at the highest level.
This section is completed after ideation_


### Objectives

_This subsection should describe what the project is trying to accomplish. What
are you trying to build?_

### Purpose

_This subsection should describe the need being met by this project. Why is it
important that this be built?_

### Scope

_This subsection should describe what will be completed in this project and also
what will not be completed. For example if the project is painting a kitchen
painting the walls are likely "in scope" but painting the cabinets or moving
appliances may be "out of scope"._

### Deliverables

_This subsection should describe what the "completed" product this project is
building looks like. If you have a customer what do you hand to them at the
end? This could, and likely does, include "beta"/draft versions of the
deliverables at project milestones._

#### Milestones 

_This subsubsection documents the project milestones and their deliverables, quality goals, and agreed on delivery dates. Having specific milestones for the project allows project members to see and feel the project progress. Further milestones serve as a risk assessment tool._


### Infrastructure, tools, and methods

_This subsection of the project plan describes what "things" are needed to complete
the project. Do you need a specific tool to plan the project (infrastructure)?
Do you need a tool or procedure while constructing the project? As an example,
if the project is to build a wooden chest, you may need a table saw to complete
the project._

## Project Constraints

_This section describes limitations imposed on the project. These constraints
will inform the ```risk_management_plan``` as well as the ```schedule```._

(personnel)=
### Personnel

_This subsection describes the human resources for the project. It should
contain a list of all people who will work on the project and what their roles
are._

```{include} personnel_cards/person.md
```

(timing)=
### Timing
_This subsection describes the timing constraints for the project. What is the
due date? Are there 'beta' releases described in deliverables. The combination
of this section and [SubSec. %s](#personnel) give the basis for determining the
schedule._

### Technological
_This subsection describes the technological constraints for the project.
Perhaps we're building a wood puzzle and don't have access to a laser cutter.
This might require us to reduce the scope/requirements of the project to a paper
model._

### Budget
_This subsection describes the monetary constraints for the project. How much do
we have to spend? Do the funds come in phases or as a lump sum?_

